---
title: Let's Do Nothing, Together!
metaDesc: 
socialImage:  
date: '2021-12-15'
tags:
  - blog
  - digital rights
  - work
  - AI in Southeast Asia
  
--- 

Moment in time: 6:44am, Tuesday 8 March 2022
Moment in space: Raining in KL, Hindu temple bells are ringing
Moment in history: Tumultuous, Russian invaded Ukraine two weeks ago and are still at it
Moment in me: White coffee caffeinated, thinking about time, space, history

In the midst of climate change events, at the brink of nuclear warfare, on the rise of the fourth wave of a two-year-long pandemic - my current concern is how to do nothing. Because, let's be real, in the scale of things, there is nothing that I can do.   

The main reason why I'm thinking a lot about "doing nothing" these days is this activity that I'm running in the Feminist Tech Playground, a collective that I'm part of, that explores aspects of our digital infrastructure with a feminist lens.  

For fun, I proposed a programme called "Let's do nothing, together: A collective exploration on refusing the attention economy", and last week ten of us got together to discuss what it means to do nothing. We are allocating 4 hours a week for the next 3 weeks to implement it, and on the fourth week we will get together again to reflect on our experiences. The group is an amazing bunch who were totally game for it and I feel really good that we're doing it together. 

---

And so it begins, the grand project of stopping to smell the roses. It is terrifying. As someone asked in the discussion, what do we call the time when we are not "doing nothing"? Are we doing something all the time? A cold hard look at how I've been spending my time reveals that I am usually occupied with work and creative stuff, somewhat fueled by some sort of anxiety, 2) preoccupied with worries of various shapes and sizes, or 3) trying to distract my overwhelmed mind with shiny pixels on my screens. On good days I cook and clean and live.  

It is not a pleasant thing to face, this feeling of spinning around and being pulled in different directions for *no good reason*. The compulsion to be productive all the time, the constant motion out of inertia, the fear that fuels the momentum. Fear of what? Of failing? Of mortality? Of the inherent meaninglessness of existence, and the meaninglessness of the fight to continue existing? 

Not a pleasant thing to face indeed. 

---

I once took a three minute video of my cat being so still in the balcony that the video could have been mistaken for an image. I timed her, she was there for 15 minutes total, just motionless, being. Not hunting a cicak, not taking a nap, not mewing for more snacks. Is that what "doing nothing" looks like? 

During the group discussion, we came up with some general rules of the game - 1) To do it four hours a week, whether in one stretch or in chunks; 2) screens are ok when used intentionally and not for work; 3) documentation on what nothing activities were done, and how it went; 4) no responsibilities allowed. 

In trying to figure out what my doing nothing activities would be, I've been looking at and interpreting the rules for myself. For example, I'm going to take screens out of my do nothing time because they always take me away. No screens for me. 

I think that the most incisive rule of all is the fourth one, which I see as the "no 'shoulding' on yourself" rule. Any activity that I feel like I "should" do is out of bounds within those four hours. Aside from work obligations, here is a list on the top of my head:
1. I should finish all of the sewing projects that I've started
2. I should meditate (I've just gone through a two-day meditation course and feel like I need to practise what I've learnt)
3. I should plant seeds in the garden because the sun is back in
4. I should clean the house
5. I should work on the vampire art story that I've been avoiding
6. I should do my Farsi revision
7. I should learn how to mix colours
8. I should blog about this experience.

It became obvious to me when building the above list that several things that I originally did for fun (sewing, gardening, writing, Farsi) have become chores. So, they are out, and I need to rethink the attitude that I have towards my hobbies - why have they become obligations? 

---

Now: 2:30pm, Saturday 12 March 2022

After a few days of mucking about, Friday arrived and I started to become a little antsy about the fact that the nothing for this week had not been done yet. My ability to procrastinate knows no bounds, as the perfectionist self tried to find a faultless way to do nothing and I found myself shoulding on myself again. The entire week I had been examining my own behaviour and while that made me aware of pockets of time that I do spend doing nothing, I never found the right moment to formally label as Doing Nothing Time. 

I will admit that I spent a fair bit of time thinking about possible activities, how to do them properly, what are the hard boundaries and what are the soft ones, how to fit them into my schedule... probably the only thing left to do was just to do it. 

On Friday afternoon, after lunch, I started by making myself a pot of lavender tea. The idea was to chill in bed. My phone and computer were in the next room, and alongside the pot of tea I had equipped myself with a book, a sketch book, and a notebook by the side of the bed. Just in case. 

The first ten minutes were spent sipping tea self-consciously. I scrawled some notes into my notebook - "definitely overthinking the doing nothing" said I, who continued by asking "What can I do? What to best spend time on?" until I realised that my mindset was still very much in the realm of "doing something", which is sad if you think about it. Then I fell into a deep sleep. 

Upon waking up I was much more relaxed, which I decided would be an indicator of doing nothing successfully, to be incorporated into the next weeks. I then cracked open a book that I had wanted to read for a long time, *How Do You Live?*, a book by Genzaburo Yoshino which is supposedly Hayao Miyazaki's favourite childhood read and is currently being produced into a new animation movie by Studio Ghibli. Eva got it for me for Christmas and I had been saving it for a special occasion. 

What a joy to read in bed under natural light! I also own the original Japanese version of the book, and for fun I read a chapter in the Japanese version just to see how well it translates, but did not push myself to read more after I tired out. Point for maintaining a relaxed disposition. For the rest of the afternoon I mostly read, rolled around in bed, and called myself out whenever I felt pangs of tension when thoughts of responsibilities invade. "It can wait," I would say to myself. "Till tonight, or Monday."

---

So went the first session of doing nothing. I wanted to process my thoughts by writing them down, thus the unwieldy blog post, which halfway through felt too much like work, but since we're here - 

Doing nothing doesn't mean doing nothing because ultimately I wouldn't want to spend four hours vegetating in bed. And so, I found it difficult to delineate the nothings from the somethings, ultimately relying on shorthands such as "no shoulds", "no investing time but rather spending time", and lastly, "it doesn't count if I'm not relaxed" (which at times felt a bit like an ultimatum).   

Further along, I realised that these efforts to compartmentalise my time were ultimately not helpful. Life is life. Culling shoulds, relaxing - I should be doing them in my day-to-day anyway, given how highly strung I am. frames of mind that are useful in general, because if I stuck to them  Time spent judging how I spend my time isIncidentally, this week I got pulled into getting a free Classpass trial with my sister, resulting in a lot of 

Culling shoulds is useful in general, because I have so many of them in my day-to-day living. Relaxing is good advice for most of the time. 

- Off topic, but I found something strange in the translated version of *How Do You Live*. I was looking for a particular part in the original version, and couldn't find it! Did the translator make an entire section up??  