---
title: Let's Do Nothing, Together!
metaDesc: 
socialImage:  
date: '2022-04-18'
tags:
  - blog
  - digital rights
  - work
  - AI in Southeast Asia
  
--- 
April 18, Monday
Current mood: 90s and 00s Cantopop. Which is to say, a little nostalgic and slow, with occasional sing alongs. 

I've been busy. Who would have guessed that living takes time? I'm waiting for something on the work front, which gives me some guilt-free non-working time, which is great. Having worked freelance for years, there's never really off time. When you're working, you're well, working. When you're not, you're worrying about the next job. 

And so this is a relatively novel experience, some decent length of time to decompress. In the last couple of months, after Chinese New Year, I started getting active again, after months of being sedentary. It feels great. I started off with yoga in the neighbourhood studio at first, for twice a week. After that stabilised, I went gym hopping with my sister on a free trial of Class Pass, settling on one with good instructors, and cut off Class Pass (I'd rather give my money directly to a small business rather than routing it through Class Pass, which I hear takes a good chunk of commission). 

And so somehow, I, who had never touched a dumbbell in years, who couldn't do one decent push-up, who once slid backwards off a treadmill with an unceremonious crash... am going to the gym three to four times a week, in addition to the three yoga classes that I originally have. It is completely out of character. I really quite enjoy it. The attentive instructors lessen the fear of injury, which is real because I ended up having a bad knee because of said treadmill fall. I like the adrenaline rush, and I actually enjoy sore muscles - neglected parts of my body reminding me that they exist. Hello my lats! 

---

April 22, Friday
Current mood: Heavy rain, under a glass roof. Nice cafe!

It is the end of the week again. Time marches forward without mercy. This week I felt a little under the weather and had to cancel some of my exercise classes, and some of that merciless time marching went on while I lay on the bed nursing a headache, trying to rest and to stay away from my phone. It is a diabolical cycle because screen time numbs the headache, which steadily grows as my eyes get strained, making the headache even worse (with more need to numb it). The only way to get out of the cycle is to banish the phone from the bedroom and marinate in that headache for a while until I drift off to sleep.  

So that's what I have been doing, and when I gather enough of energy in between lie-downs I sew. I must say that the sewing machine, bought during one of the MCOs last year, has been a worthy investment because it gets so much use. Unexpected, given the quick turnover rate of my hobbies. I've been experimenting with the fit of a tank top with a certain pattern that I got from a book - I'm about 95% there I'd say, but not fully. When I'm 100% there I will be able to clone the same top with very little effort, and make variations such as a dress, which is a top combined with a skirt bottom.   

The good thing about making your own garments is that you "read" clothes differently - clothes in the wardrobe automatically get more interesting as you look beyond colours and prints, and think about construction and detail. I also got a breakthrough last month when I started looking at mending clothes, which was when my wardrobe of worn and tattered clothes started looking *very* interesting. 

I got some books on visible mending, which makes every hole and stain a potential possibility to play with and problem solve. For instance, my holey pink shorts now have plots of shashiko stitches which strengthen the structure of the internal patches, while elevating the shorts to being one-of-a-kind colourful. All that hand sewing before I got my machine now comes in useful, as I look at different types of embroidery stitches to patch and reinforce various pieces of well worn garments. And now the repaired pieces have more character and life to them, which makes me want to wear them more. It is all in all a very enriching process.  

Incidentally I've also been playing with pottery, attending weekly wheel throwing lessons at a local studio while I have the time. It is also fascinating. Same with clothes - looking at handmade ceramics then becomes an absorbing activity, because every groove and crack and splash of colour tells a story of the process, and one just *wonders*. And it's haptic too, which means that I'm reconnecting with my fairly neglected sense of touch. 

And that is why living takes time. There are ten thousand projects that I want to do, some of which come easily (such as sewing, I have two dresses in the pipeline now) but some are really shy and need much more coaxing and cajoling. I finally got around to planting some seeds (tomatoes, peppers, marigolds), about one month later than optimal and fewer species than I had planned for, but the process is at least started. Sunflowers and watermelon soon. Maybe carrots too? 