---
title: Slowly functional, foot is back but be gentle, it is now April
metaDesc: 
socialImage:  
date: '2023-04-02'
tags:
  - life
  - blog
  - sewing

--- 

I'm working on Version 3 of my sloper and I am slowly getting pissed off. V1 had the wrong measurement for the neck which skewed everything, and V2 had a wonky full hip length, which had to be tweaked to V2.1. Then I realised that the bust area in the front should be adjusted to make sure that the seams were straight. 

Argh. 

So here's the procedure. First, measurement of the body - all the vertical lengths (using the neck as the starting point, measuring where things are in height downwards) and all the horizontal lengths (circumference of bust, waist, hips etc). Calculations are made because the slopers are cut at fold. 

Bear with me, I know nothing makes sense, and I am exhausted to the point of not caring about legibility.  

Second, I plot out all the vertical and horizontal measurements on my roll of tracing paper, and a first draft of the front sloper is done. I trace this out and make a full bust adjustment, including a dart. Tht front sloper is done. 

Third, the back sloper. Again the vertical and horizontal measurements. No darts needed so it's done. 

Fourth, I trace both front and back slopers onto a piece of pre-washed, pre-pressed calico cloth (kain belacu). 

Fifth, I sew the muslin (test garment). 

Sixth, I try the muslin on, and take notes of where things don't work. 

Rinse and repeat. 

My spirit shalt not be broken. 