---
title: Walking dots
metaDesc: 
socialImage:  
date: '2023-03-18'
tags:
  - life
  - fitness
  - blog
  - drawing

--- 
All in all, a fairly successful day. 

In the morning I spent some time copying Peter de Seve's sketches, just to observe his lines, and wrote down my observations. 

Then I took my parents' cleaning robot out of its package to charge and to assess its problems. Usually I procrastinate the hell out of these things, but I didn't this time! I think the robot needs to be sent to the service centre, so regretfully it wasn't a 一氣呵成 kind of task, but I'm proud of myself for doing what I could. 

Then I started reading Rick Rubin's The Creative Act, and gathered enough of energy to continue on my cushion cover, which I was slowly sliding out of interest of, but I'm back in the game now. My guitar applique now has a neck, and has 2 strings out of 6 embroidered. I need to finish this stage so that I can continue figuring out the composition, so today a good stride forward was made. 

Spurred on by my little wins, I continued by practising the guitar, until my fingers and wrist hurt too badly (bar chords will be the death of me) - and so I alternated between guitar, reading, drawing, hand sewing, and watching some Japanese dramas for the rest of the day. 

I wish I could have one day every week like today, doing everything and doing nothing. Truth is, even when I'm stuck at home, my mind is rarely so clear and active that I can jump from one thing to another like this. Usually I procrastinate and watch the precious weekend minutes and hours go by, anxiety building, till the only thing I have energy to do is just to doom scroll on my phone or binge watch Japanese dramas so that I can shut out the roar of me being disappointed at me. 

When what I need to do, and what I did do today, is to take one small step at a time, slowly opening the door to the first thing, which then opened up the next door, and then the next. 

And now I'm blogging! The second post of the weekend, how remarkable. 

---

And just like that, the weekend is over. I think I'm ready for the new week, since I did get a good rest from work, something that I've realised is very important. Good weekends equals productivity during the week. 